Rationale for the project: (Problem definition, need for your solution) 
 The human population between 1950 and 2050 is projected to approximately quadruple and shift from 80% rural to nearly 80% urban (UN 2011). The majority of this growth occurs in developing countries like Trinidad and Tobago. How developing countries accommodate for the rise in population and increase in urbanization will have a huge economic, social and environmental impacts. In order to minimize urban sprawl, have a positive social and economic effect while minimizing environmental degradation is a challenge we face right now. An optimal solution is needed to keep in line with population growth, climate change and the new environmental goals outlined by the world leaders.
 Business Benefits: 
●	Creates sustainable and affordable housing for future generations.
●	Creates job opportunities in construction.
●	Ultimately tries to optimize transportation by facilitating multiple road types.
 
Stakeholders 
User stakeholders: (Who will be using the system?) 
●	Government of Trinidad and Tobago, 
●	Construction Companies, 
●	Environmental Companies, 
●	Citizens
●	 Ministry of Urban Development
●	Architects
●	Small Business Owners
Non-user stakeholders: (Who will not be directly using the system but benefits from the system?) 
●	Foreign Visitors
 
User Environment: (Environment refers to the collection of hardware and software tools a system developer uses to build software systems.) 
●	Population growth in specific areas.
●	An account of average income of individuals.
●	Understanding of the economic climate and building cost.
●	Various areas, sketch of land size and building areas.
●	Information on present and future road networks of the surrounding area.

Alternatives and Competition to your solution:  
 Geographical Simulation and Optimization Systems(GeoSOS)
Remsoft – focused on forestry, agriculture, and infrastructure planning.

Estimated Project Duration:  
~Approximately 10 weeks.

For each group member, key skills (e.g. Databases, Web programming, etc.) –  
Roganci Fontelera – Organization and management skills. 
Fazeeia Mohammed – Interpersonal skills and geospatial observational skills. 
Rongzhen Chen - Problem solving and computational skills. 
How each member contributes to the project :
Fazeeia Mohammed – Project Lead
Rongzhen Chen – Documenter Lead
Roganci Fontelera – Design Lead

Statement of how you plan to work together (When you will meet, Collaboration tools you will use) :
Members will meet two times a week on campus, with each meeting lasting at least an hour.
In meetings, ideas will be discussed and work on the software development will be done. In addition to physical meetings, individual work and research will be done at home and shared via WhatsApp and Google Docs. 
